DOC-2024 - Management Appliance Upgrade Steps (#7804)
spectrocloud/librarium: _partials/self-hosted/management-appliance/_upgrade-palette-enablement.mdx

---
partial_category: self-hosted
partial_name: upgrade-palette-enablement
---

<Tabs groupId="registry-type">

<TabItem value="internal-zot-registry" label="Internal Zot Registry">

{/* <Tabs>

<TabItem label="Local UI Method" value="local-ui-method"> */}

> 1. Navigate to the [Artifact Studio](https://artifact-studio.spectrocloud.com/) through a web browser, and under **Install {props.iso}**, click on the drop-down menu and select the target version for the upgrade.

Author: Funnily enough, I wrote it like this originally and then changed it 😆

2. Click **Show Artifacts**, the **{props.iso} Artifacts** pop-up window displays. Click on the **Download** button for the **Content bundle (including Ubuntu)**.

3. Wait until the content bundle has been downloaded to your local machine. The bundle is downloaded in `.tar.zst` format alongside a signature file in `sig.bin` format.

   :::tip

   Refer to the <VersionedLink text="Artifact Studio guide" url="/downloads/artifact-studio"/> for detailed guidance on how to verify the
   integrity of downloaded files using the provided signature file.

   :::

6. Log in to the Local UI of the leader host of the {props.version} management cluster. By default, Local UI is accessible
   at `https://<node-ip>:5080`. Replace `<node-ip>` with the IP address of the leader host.

7. From the left main menu, click **Content**.

8. Click **Actions** in the top right and select **Upload Content** from the drop-down menu.

> 9. Click the upload icon to open the file selection dialog and select the content bundle file from your local

Author: No, this does make sense. I was doing the same for other articles, just forgot this time.

   machine. Alternatively, you can drag and drop the file into the upload area.

   The upload process starts automatically once the file is selected. You can monitor the upload progress in
   the **Upload Content** dialog.

>    Wait for the **File(s) uploaded successfully** confirmation message or the green tick to appear next to the upload progress bar.

Author: It's correct, so thanks for the suggestion.

> 10. On the **Content** page, wait for the content to finish syncing. This is indicated by the **Syncing content: N items are pending** banner that appears to the left of disk usage. The banner will disappear once the sync is complete. This can take several minutes depending on the size of the content bundle and your internal network speed.

Author: ```suggestion
10. On the **Content** page, wait for the content to finish syncing. This is indicated by the **Syncing content: (N) items are pending** banner that appears to the left of disk usage. The banner will disappear once the sync is complete. This can take several minutes depending on the size of the content bundle and your internal network speed.
```

> 10. On the **Content** page, wait for the content to finish syncing. This is indicated by the **Syncing content: N items are pending** banner that appears to the left of disk usage. The banner will disappear once the sync is complete. This can take several minutes depending on the size of the content bundle and your internal network speed.

Author: I'm not a fan of the hash here. Do we use it elsewhere?

11. From the left main menu, click **Cluster** and select the **Configuration** tab.

12. Click the **Update** drop-down menu and select **Review Changes**.

13. Review the changes for each profile carefully and ensure you are satisfied with the proposed updates. There may be changes to the profiles between versions that include addition or removal of properties.

    :::warning

    For some upgrade paths, you will need to re-enter the configuration you provided during the initial {props.version} installation. This includes the **OCI Pack Registry Password** and any other settings that were changed from the defaults.

    :::

    Click **Confirm Changes** once satisfied.

14. Click **Update** to start the upgrade process.

During the upgrade process, the {props.version} system and tenant consoles will be unavailable, and a warning message will be displayed when attempting to log in. You can monitor the upgrade progress in the **Overview** tab on the **Cluster** page.

{/* </TabItem>

<TabItem label="Palette CLI Method" value="palette-cli-method">

// The Palette CLI method is currently not working, so commenting this out until a future release.

> 1. Navigate to the [Artifact Studio](https://artifact-studio.spectrocloud.com/) through a web browser, and under **Install {props.iso}**, click on the drop-down menu and select the target version for the upgrade.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [Artifact Studio](https://artifact-studio.spectrocloud.com/) through a web browser, and under **Install {props.iso}**, click on the drop-down menu and select the version you want to upgrade your {props.app} to.
```

2. Click **Show Artifacts**, the **{props.iso} Artifacts** pop-up window displays. Click on the **Download** button for the **Content bundle (including Ubuntu)**.

3. Wait until the content bundle has been downloaded to your local machine. The bundle is downloaded in `.tar.zst` format alongside a signature file in `sig.bin` format.

   :::tip

   Refer to the <VersionedLink text="Artifact Studio guide" url="/downloads/artifact-studio"/> for detailed guidance on how to verify the
   integrity of downloaded files using the provided signature file.

   :::

4. Open a terminal on your local machine and navigate to the directory where the content bundle file is located.

5. Use the Palette CLI to log in to the internal Zot registry. Replace `<management-vip>` with the VIP address of the {props.version} management cluster, `<username>` with your username, and `<password>` with your password. If you have changed the default port for the Zot registry, replace `30003` with the correct port number.

   ```shell
   palette content registry-login \
   --registry https://<management-vip>:30003 \
   --username <username> \
   --password <password>
   ```

> 6. Upload the content bundle to the internal Zot registry using the Palette CLI. Replace `<content-bundle-zst>` with your downloaded content bundle file and `<management-vip>` with the VIP address of the {props.version} management cluster. If you have changed the default port or the base content path for the Zot registry, replace `30003` with the correct port number and `spectro-content` with the correct content path.

Author: I shouldn't have used pack, I will correct that and leave this as is.

   If you are using custom TLS certificates or choosing to skip TLS, use the appropriate flags as shown in the following examples.

   <Tabs>

   <TabItem label="Custom TLS Certificate" value="custom-tls-certificate">

   ```shell
   palette content push \
   --registry <management-vip>:30003/spectro-content \
   --file <content-bundle-zst> \
   --ca-cert <path-to-ca-cert> \
   --tls-cert <path-to-tls-cert> \
   --tls-key <path-to-tls-key>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Skip TLS" value="skip-tls">

   ```shell
   palette content push \
   --registry <management-vip>:30003/spectro-content \
   --file <content-bundle-zst> \
   --insecure
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

   The following example output is expected when an upload is successful.

>    ```shell hideClipboard title="Example Output"

Author: Sentence case makes sense here.

   ...
   INFO[0366] successfully copied all artifacts from local bundle /root/tmp/bundle-extract/palette-enterprise-appliance-4.7.9.tar to remote bundle 10.11.12.13:30003/spectro-content/bundle-definition:palette-enterprise-appliance-4.7.9
   -----------------------------
   Push Summary
   -----------------------------
   local bundle palette-enterprise-appliance-4.7.9 pushed to 10.11.12.13:30003/spectro-content
   ```

7. Log in to the Local UI of the leader host of the {props.version} management cluster. By default, Local UI is accessible
   at `https://<node-ip>:5080`. Replace `<node-ip>` with the IP address of the leader host.

8. From the left main menu, click **Content**.

> 9. On the **Content** page, wait for the content to finish syncing. This is indicated by the **Syncing content: N items are pending** banner that appears to the left of disk usage. This can take several minutes depending on the size of the content bundle and your internal network speed.

Author: ```suggestion
9. On the **Content** page, wait for the content to finish syncing. This is indicated by the **Syncing content: (N) items are pending** banner that appears to the left of disk usage. This can take several minutes depending on the size of the content bundle and your internal network speed.
```

:::

1. Navigate to the [Artifact Studio](https://artifact-studio.spectrocloud.com/) through a web browser, and under **Install {props.iso}**, click on the drop-down menu and select the target version for the upgrade.

2. Click **Show Artifacts**, the **{props.iso} Artifacts** pop-up window displays. Click on the **Download** button for the **Content bundle (including Ubuntu)**.

3. Wait until the content bundle has been downloaded to your local machine. The bundle is downloaded in `.tar.zst` format alongside a signature file in `sig.bin` format.

   :::tip

   Refer to the <VersionedLink text="Artifact Studio guide" url="/downloads/artifact-studio"/> for detailed guidance on how to verify the
   integrity of downloaded files using the provided signature file.

   :::

4. Open a terminal on your local machine and navigate to the directory where the content bundle file is located.

5. Authenticate with your external registry using the command line or a GUI tool of your choice. The following examples
   demonstrate how to authenticate with an OCI registry using the [`oras`](https://oras.land/docs/) CLI tool and the Palette CLI.

   <Tabs>

>    <TabItem label="Harbor" value="harbor">

Reviewer: Can we make use of `<Tabs groupId="harbor">` and similar group IDs so that the tabs move together? That way, if I select "AWS ECR" on step 5, "AWS ECR" is also automatically selected on step 6?

>    <TabItem label="Harbor" value="harbor">

Reviewer: Can we make use of `<Tabs groupId="harbor">` and similar group IDs so that the tabs move together? That way, if I select "AWS ECR" on step 5, "AWS ECR" is also automatically selected on step 6?

   Use `oras` to log in to your OCI registry. Replace the values below with your environment configuration values.
   If you are using a Harbor registry with a self-signed certificate, add the `--insecure` flag to the
   `oras` command.

   <Tabs>

>    <TabItem label="Regular Certificate" value="regular-certificate">

Reviewer: Similar `<Tabs groupId="">` comment for regular/self-signed certificates.

   ```shell
   oras login <registry-url-or-ip> --username '<username>' --password '<password>'
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Self-Signed Certificate" value="self-signed-certificate">

   ```shell
   oras login <registry-url-or-ip> --insecure --username '<username>' --password '<password>'
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="AWS ECR" value="aws-ecr">

   You can acquire the AWS ECR authentication command from the AWS ECR console. From the ECR repository details page,
   click on the **View push commands** button to access the command. Refer to the
   [AWS ECR Authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/getting-started-cli.html#cli-authenticate-registry)
   documentation for more information.

   <Tabs>

>    <TabItem label="Private ECR" value="private-ecr">

Reviewer: Similar `<Tabs groupId="">` comment for public/private ECRs
